This week, I'll go into the assumptions
underlying the Naive Bayes method.
The main one is independence
of words in a sentence and
I'll tell you why this can be a big
problem when the method is applied.
>> Naive Bayes is a very simple model
because it doesn't require setting
any custom parameters.
This method is referred to as naive
because of the assumptions it makes
about the data.
The first assumption is independence
between the predictors or features
associated with each class and the second
has to do with your validation sets.
Let's explore each of these assumptions
and how they could affect your results.
To illustrate towards independence
between features looks like,
let's look at the following sentence.
It is sunny and hot in the Sahara Desert.
Naive Bayes assumes that the words
in a piece of text are independent
of one another, but as you can see,
this typically isn't the case.
The word sunny and hot often appear
together as they do in this example.
Taken together, they might also
be related to the thing they're
describing like a beach or a desert.
So the words in a sentence are not always
necessarily independent of one another,
but Naive Bayes assumes that they are.
This could lead you to under or
over estimates the conditional
probabilities of individual words.
When using Naive Bayes, for example,
if your task was to complete the sentence,
it's always cold and snowy in blank,
Naive Bayes might assign equal
probability to the words spring,
summer, fall, and winter even though
from the context you can see that winter
should be the most likely candidate.
In the next courses of
this specialization,
you will be introduced to some more
sophisticated methods that deal with this.
Another issue with Naive Bayes is that it
relies on the distribution of the training
data sets.
A good data set will contain
the same proportion of positive and
negative tweets as a random sample would.
However, most of the available
annotated corpora are artificially
balanced just like the data set
you'll use for the assignment.
In the real tweet stream,
positive tweet is sent to occur more
often than their negative counterparts.
One reason for
this is that negative tweets might contain
content that is banned by the platform or
muted by the user such as inappropriate or
offensive vocabulary.
Assuming that reality behaves
as your training corpus,
this could result in a very optimistic or
very pessimistic model.
There's a lot more on this in
the last video of this module,
which analyzes the sources
of errors in Naive Bayes.
Let's do a quick recap of
all this new information.
The assumption of independence in Naive
Bayes is very difficult to guarantee, but
despite that, the model works
pretty well in certain situations.
And for the assignments in this module,
the relative frequency of positive and
negative tweets in your training
data sets needs to be balanced in
order to deliver an accurate results.
Now you understand the assumptions
that underlie the Naive Bayes method.
What if it fails to perform well for
some sentence?
In the next video,
I'll show you what to do in such cases.